Let's first of all understand what a service worker actually is.
Now this is how our javascript code typically behaves.
It runs in a single thread.
That means our web application which can consist of multiple pages or in the case of an angular EP with
one page only.
This app often uses Javascript and if you are using angular You're of course using javascript because
angular uses Javascript so this javascript code the entire angler app runs on one single thread and
Javascript has its features to still handle asynchronous code and not block the execution.
But this is all normal javascript now javascript in the browser also offers us to run an additional
threat.
We can run a so-called weap worker and a special form of that is the service worker on another thread.
So this is still and uses one in the same Fred but it's a different threat than your main javascript
code and important part is that this Fred is kind of decoupled from your h tim l pages.
So this means that this can also continue running in the background for example on your mobile phone.
That is something mobile browsers typically offer.
This can continue running and it could therefore all do advanced things like receive push notifications.
Take my full progressive webapp course if you want to learn more about this.
But one crucial thing that a service worker can do is it can manage all your different pay just in case
you've got multiple pages or your single page if you're building an angular app and it can listen to
outgoing.
Networks request so it can listen to requests going out of your web page.
For example if you're fetching the assets off that web page to see is us code the font javascript or
Also data from an API.
The service worker can catch these outgoing requests and do something with them.
Like for example cache the responses in a special cache storage or Dan alter returned these cached responses
back to your page so that it also works if you've got no internet connection.
Of course only if there is a cached word available.
This is what the service worker does.
It can be seen as a proxy between your app your front and app and the HTP are sending to the back and
it proxy said request which means it catches it does something with it and might then allow it to still
go on and leave the app but it could also block this.
Now configuring such a service worker and writing it from scratch is something you can do and something
you'll learn in my full progressive webapp course.
There you'll also learn about features like push notifications and so on.
For this video will focus on how angular can easily add such a service worker to our angler app because
it turns out that there is a special package we can install for it.
Let's quit as you serve.
And now here it's important that you're using the latest s.l.
I work for that project and this project does.
And then you can run Engy at to add a third party package but that's more than just the NPM library.
Really some functionality to your app and only some features can be added because essentially this will
execute a command which has to be defined by whichever package you are targeting.
So not every not even close.
Not every third party library supports this feature but there is a special library which does support
that which you can target with at angular slash P.W. 8.
And if you run this this will actually configure your existing project to use the angular service worker
package and start with a pre-configured service Rooker.
So does a lot for you.
You can already see it added some things to the next HTL file like the no script section to give a warning
if Javascript is turned off because we need that of course.
We need to turn on it loads does manifest witched all the generated.
Now that is important for actually having a launcher icon for your app.
If you have it on a mobile phone you could even save it to the homescreen and then started with that
and you can find which icon that should use and so on.
So datus the manifest adjacent file again learn more in that course I mentioned for us interesting is
the app Marchal the calls in the app module we are using a service worker module which is imported from
at angler's service worker and it is really an official package of the Anglo framework and it does what
it sounds like it registers a service worker which will be that proxy that catches outgoing requests
and does something with them and you will learn how to configure what it does to them.
Later in this video of course we use it here by calling the Register method and dare we target DNG S-W
worker Daut J S file and you won't find that file here.
And the reason for Dad is that this file will actually be auto generated.
It will be generated during the built process and it will be in the disk folder day before and it will
hold your service worker which will contain a lot of functionality which you don't have to and typically
don't want to write on your own.
And here it's all configured to only be added if you're building for production in the folder we see
some icons were added for that manifest adjacent file and then the root project folder.
We see that in the package to chase the files something changed.
For example the angular P.W. package was added which includes that angler's service worker package.
And we got this NGI S-W conflict file disaster files where you can configure debt service worker which
will be generated but will take a closer look at this in a second.
The angular adjacent file which manages to Selye project all that was adjusted a little bit.
Their service worker is set to true for the production build.
This is required because a service worker will cache certain resources and to ensure that the new build
updates the service worker.
These resources will contain a hash and Deadworld and all to be injected into the service worker.
Which is why we need to make the built process aware of the fact that we need a service.
This is how it works.
Now let's simply see that in action.
Let's create a production build by running ngi build dash dash prot and this will now bundle and optimized
the entire app use ahead of time computation and so on and it will spit out our angular app in a disk
folder and there we should then also see the service worker.
So let's have a look.
The closer the source tab here let's refresh the disk folder the angler P.W. a folder for the project
and there we see that ngi S.W. work or JSE fall.
You remember that is the file we are importing in the app module here.
We're registering it here so this can be folded into this folder indeed if we have a look at it.
You see there's a lot of code in there because well it's actually pre-generated for you to do all that
caching and so on.
In a very efficient way.
And now let's simply do what it lets simply see what it does.
And for that you need a web server you can run to host your production app here.
You could do that with Engy serve Passionist Peron but there you will actually not see the service worker
in action correctly because it will only build it in memory.
So therefore what you should do is install a lightweight node server and thankfully there is one you
can install that with NPM install dash g to install it globally HGP server.
This is a package you can use to launch a simple node based server which will host the content of the
folder you run the command in and to command you need to run as just edge to be Desch server.
So let's navigate into this folder and there in the angular P.W. a folder and let's run HTP server and
then you can assign a port with Mashpee 1881 for example and bulled and bring this up.
And now you can wisit local host 881 and you should see or angular app there.
Now this app looks like a normal app now reloaded once to make sure that the service worker can do its
work and go to application again.
We should now see that under application we got that energy S-W worker running.
And if you don't see that try reloading the page one more time.
Also make sure to clear the storage here entirely.
If you worked with service workers and disport served on your local domain before now you should see
that.
The interesting part is if I now tick off line again and I reload it still works right.
We still see the same content as before even though we're off line.
Now how can that work for go to the network tap and we clear it and we now reload.
We see we're making a bunch of requests here and they're all essentially served from DNG services worker
here.
So from the service worker this is all served.
The interesting part is the Post's request here probably which is still kind of can connect to the outgoing
server for dad.
Let's again disable wife fly and let's try this again.
And now this does not work.
But what we can see still is that for one there is a bug or an intended behavior in Chrome which leads
to these API requests still going through even if we simulate offline mode.
But more interestingly we see a wide page.
We don't see that there is no internet connection error.
Now we would not just see a white page.
We would see any content we add here if we load our page.
So we essentially see everything that's hard coded into our angular app that dynamic content is missing.
We'll take a look at this in a second.
But all the hard coded content is there because what we can see in the Network tab is that we're loading
the main page the styles not to fund but the styles the javascript files all that is loaded from the
service worker and the failing things are the fund and our posts.
Let me turn Wi-Fi back on and also leave that simulation mode which didn't work too great I guess.
And now of course if I reload it again it works.
And let's now change something.
First of all let's change something at the app component.
They're all at a H-1 Tech where I say my posts now let's quit said HTP server.
Go back into the main folder and let's run N-G build dash dash prod again and let's see how this now
changes the app.
And if I'm right regarding my statement dead hard coded content would be cached.
So let's wait for days to finish for the bells to finish.
And once it's finished let's go back into debt d'Este folder and there into that angular PWO a folder
and let's run our server command again.
So HTP server on that port lads reload the application here and you might need to reload twice and you
should see my posts.
The reason for that double reload is that the service worker was loaded and the service worker is aware
of the fact that the next team El-Fadl file changed or that the script rendering content to it change
to be precise.
Because of that hashing thing I mentioned does hash table which is automatically generated and all the
files having hashes because by default it would of course fetch these resources from the cache.
So we would see the old version.
We don't want that.
So we take the new version by work we let us give Didn't you word by using that angler's service Rooker
package which takes care about that hashing and the fact that the service worker is aware of the new
version for us.
So we get that.
Now if they go off line again you'll see that is also part of the load page.
And if I go fully off line by turning off Wi-Fi it we still see that.
So now the font and the API call the API data is missing I should say.
So that is what I now want to change and to change this and get that same page year when we're off line
well as I'm getting when I'm online we need to change the service worker conflict which can be done
in DNG S-W conflict or adjacent file.
Now in this fall you can configure how the angular service worker behaves.
So let's take a closer look.